It so now what we you are going to do beginning work on the filter.
So what we want to do we want to type something right here let's just like E6 and this is going to trigger
a function that is going to search the whole Jasen all the news and just filter the news.
And if it's finding a media title that has ESX is going to just hide just maybe delete all the other
entrances and just show the one with the match.
That's what we need to do just to filter the news.
So this could get confusing.
And I'm just going to do the coding and I'm going to explain what's going on as we advance.
OK.
So now right here in the header header component right here we have a function that it's getting the
keywords we are typing right here.
And we are setting a state of keywords with the value which is in this case is going to be is six.
So now what we need to do to filter the news is to call to a function that is going to do all this logic.
OK that's fine.
Just let me go right here.
This function is going to be inside the index.
OK.
So this function is going to grab some state with all the news and it's going to filter the news.
So I'm going to create a function and it's going to be called filtered news.
Just simple is that just a function that does something.
Now this filter filter news function is going to receive some data some arguments the arguments it's
going to be whatever the user is typing right here.
So we're going to call that argument keyboard's to something simple keyboards.
OK.
Now for now I'm just going to cancel Lague the keywords just to make sure that we're getting the arguments
correctly.
All right that's fine.
So now this filtered news function it's inside the index.
But what we need to do is to pass this data from the child component which is the header.
So we need a way to just kind of share this function with the hetter components.
How do we share things with the palm print component or between components.
We use props.
We use props for example on news list to feed the news this components with the least of news.
So we just used props.
Prematch do the same right here.
Going to go right here.
And my function it's going to be called for example new search just news and then just search something
that makes sense.
And this is going to be equal to a function.
OK.
So what we need to do is we need to pass this function as props.
So first this function is going to receive some key warts and it's going to be a fat are a function.
So what we need to trigger right here is going to be the filter news.
So we're going to say this to make reference to this class to this class and we're going to use the
name of the function filtered news and this filter news takes some arguments.
It's going to be key warts
that's good.
So now if I go to Cantor and we go right here the bottom line is say just cancel log and say prompts.
And the thing is that we are passing to the child component This prompts.
So if I just cancel the prompts right here in the child component I should be getting a function inside
prompts.
OK.
So let's check in.
That's fine.
So I'm getting a prop that it's new search and this new search equals to a function.
So what we can do right Rainha we can call this new search function function inside prompts what we
can do is just call the function.
Maybe this does props and the name of the function we're going to do it in a couple minutes.
The thing is that we need to just take care of something else first.
Let me just tell you the logic of how this is going to work.
Now when the application starts we get a state a just a default state with all the news all the news
and we are passing this state with all news to components to render all news.
Now after the user types.
For example ESX we're going to send this quartz to the filching news.
He's going to grab this news that Jason and it's going to filter everything.
And he's just going to return whatever it's filtering.
In this case if we do it six it's just going to return one entry which is this one used new iOS 6 upgrade
available.
OK.
So after it's filtering it's returning the state to news which just one entry.
Just going to be one.
All right.
So what happens now it's going to fail of course.
What happens if the user types for example react right here.
Let me just go back
there the user types react after they search for ESX.
The application is going to go back to filter news is going to grab the news the state to find react
in all news.
But the problem is that we already mutated this in news that Jason this new state contains only one
entry which is new upgrade available so we cannot use this as it is what do we need to do is to leave
this news state with all the news.
This is going to be an immutable.
OK.
This is going to be just like it is and when are the application loads is going to put the all the news
inside the news.
OK.
So now what we need to do is we need to create something that is going to be just changed the whole
time.
Can you create a new state that is going to be filtered just filter so it can make sense.
So this filtered when the application starts it's going to be equal to all the news.
So the application is going to start and it's going to render the filtered with all the news.
OK.
So I'm going to grab this one the filter and I'm going to put it inside here.
So now the child component the news list is going to render from this state filter which it's all news
whenever the application starts.
Then I'm going to go right here.
I'm going to type ESX.
The application is going to go to the function filter news.
And this time it's going to look inside the news that Jason that has all the news and he's going to
return the results.
But he's going to return to filtered so filtered is going to be equal.
Equal to one entry then the user is going to go and type react for example and the application is going
to go back to filter news and he's going to look inside the news that Jason that has all the news and
it's going to just find one entry which is the second one and it's going to return the results to filtered
news.
So now filtered is going to just show the second entry.
So pretty much we have one state that has all the news in a different state that half has the mutating
and treats.
For example all the different news after we just filter it.
So that's pretty much the logic behind this.
OK.
So we have ours.
Our function that it's doing something through prompts and we have our filtered state.
Let's go to the next section and make this work.